Everyone.
So let us go through the implementation for to look at all of it as we have just discussed.
So what I have in this boilerplate is I have then put really this is the metric that I want to fill
and I want to replace all the rows with valid numbers.
And this is the Boolean function that I have created.
If it would have been count the number of ways in which you can fill this Aluko.
I could have made the return type as INT.
But for now we are looking for only one solution.
This bool will work fine and we will stop.
We will stop backtracking once we found out the right solution.
Okay.
What we just discussed is what we will do will try to move forward in the grid.
And at some point we realize that, okay, we are not able to place a right number.
So in that case we say, okay, we return false, that false and propagate back and maybe we fill the
number hit.
We try to update that number, but it still doesn't work.
That again returns false.
And at this point we wish we had placed five.
Then we try to update it six or seven or eight, maybe eight in it is a valid number that we can place
here.
What will replace?
Uh, it it.
And we again, may go forward.
Look, these.
Okay?
Go and solve the rest of the puzzle, okay?
So this is how we're going to proceed to this one action.
Instead of going this in a zigzag manner, we are going in this particular manner.
Okay.
We're going like this.
Like this.
At this point, a problem happens.
Then we again backtrack in the similar direction.
Okay.
Like this.
So let's see how we can actually implement this problem.
So let's go through the code.
So first of all, I need to write some base case, some recursive case.
So this is what I do for every problem.
So let us think of the base case.
So maybe I can say if I was in, which is nine, in this case, we have a nine gross nine grid.
On what we can do.
We can take it.
We found out the solution.
We we can print the solution at this particular point, and we can get it done and we can be done.
So it's going to be an easy one.
And we're going to return to if we find out the solution, we will bring the solution later.
That means we will print the matrix.
And in the recursive case, let's see what happens.
So in the recursive case, one case could be wired.
I'd go and of the two.
Okay.
So we can see if Dick was in.
And that means we need to shift to the next rule we considered done solve so.
Local the semantics I was as I plus one the column goes as zero and remains same.
So if you are at this particular point.
Okay, so if you just cross the boundary.
Okay.
So you want to shift to this particular point.
So this is the equals nine.
So you say, okay, this is I call my G, this becomes a plus one and it becomes zero.
This is what you do.
So when this cell makes a call next, you see, okay, return whatever is returned by this problem,
which is starting at this particular cell.
Okay.
This is what we do.
So I hope this cleared.
This case is cleared.
And in either case could be if the cell is already filled.
If it is a prefilled cell.
So we need to skip the prefilled cell to how we can find that if matrix of it is not zero.
That means it is a preferred value.
We do not need to do anything at that, so we just need to make a recursive call on the next cell.
And it is possible that the next cell is also preferred.
Okay.
So in that case, we will again add this case.
And we will make a recursive call to the next look.
Otherwise, we are on the cell to be filled on for the cell.
You.
You don't know what is the right number.
So you have to try out all possibilities.
So you sail forward and number equals one number less than equals and number plus, plus.
And now you need to check whether on it is safe.
To place the number or not by looking at the rule column and the A grid.
So if.
Is safe.
I can make a helper method that will check if it is safe to place number i position I go my G.
Then only I will place that particular number.
Okay.
So now we are going to place that particular number.
We are going to say, let us try to solve this puzzle by placing this number I like on my D on making
a recursive call.
To solve the problem.
Okay.
So this variable is also a problem.
Will be true if the remaining problem can be solved by placing this number otherwise.
Okay.
Let us see if salsa problem is true.
We can say okay, return true.
If it is false, then you can clearly see that this file look will work.
So let me just tell you what we are trying to do.
Let's say we're at a particular cell.
I think it let us place one where we see one is already there.
I see.
Okay, let me place say two.
But later, two is already built.
Let me see.
Okay, let me play three.
Yes, three again.
Three can be placed.
So we place three here and we make a recursive call on this part.
Now the problem arises.
Maybe by putting three.
We cannot solve this grid.
Okay.
We cannot form a solution.
If three is presented, maybe the solution should contain five.
What we do this problem will automatically return false if and what we will do.
This loop will work and we will try to place four here, maybe before it is presented.
We will skip it.
We will place five it, and once we place five, we may cause a problem.
We make a recursive call and let us see this matrix get solved.
And we hit the base case and in the base case we are going to print the solution.
Okay, so whatever the values are that they will be contained in this matrix and we can just print that
matrix.
So we can return true if the problem is or look if it does not.
So we return false.
We try six seven.
We try it with nine.
If it it is still not sold, we make this sale as zero and we're done false to the previous calls.
This step is going to be called backtracking.
Okay, so we will write the backtracking step now.
So if.
If no option works, then you.
What do you do?
You make the currency as a zero.
Okay.
And you tell the previous call that you need to change something and redone it.
Okay, so we go back.
We again try something on the previous cell.
We come to the current cell again.
If it doesn't work, we again go back.
We may again go back further and so on.
Because of this, this goes on like this.
So maybe we come here.
Come here and.
At this point, we go back.
And maybe it does.
It still doesn't work.
Maybe we go further back.
We try to change something here.
Then we again, come here.
We update these values again.
We may get stuck.
We can again come back.
We can change it and so on.
Okay.
So you don't need to diving into how this is working, but if you have an idea, if you can assume that
this always works, then it will be easy for you.
To write code.
Okay, so while writing good, you don't need to think how this backtracking is going to work if you
are new or if you are a beginner in solving these type of problems.
Once you know, once you've written the code and it works, you can easily verify how this code is working
or why it is working on that thing you can do very easy for beginners, I suggest try to break the problem
in simpler cases, write the code and then try to think what is your code doing while it is working?
Okay, so it's I know it's a bit tricky to explain it, but tricky for the beginners to think.
But this is the beauty of recursion and by tracking it you can solve complex problems very easily by
writing just simple logic, okay?
And everything is done by this magical function and solve the problem, which is indeed the function
that we have written.
Okay, so do it for one cell and the rest because it will do it for you.
Okay.
So this is the point that you need to keep in mind how I handle for one set.
Look, if I cannot fit any of these numbers in my current cell, what I will do, I will say, okay,
just make it zero hundred and five to the previous cell and that's it.
Okay.
So now what we need to do, we need to write this function is safe and it's going to be a pretty easy
function.
So let us quickly write the code for this one as well.
So let me see.
Boule is safe.
I get the matrix.
I get the coordinates, I get the number I get.
And the first thing is I need to check whether this number is present in the lower column.
So for that, I can simply put a loop like this.
I can check for the Roman column.
So it's going to be pretty easy if I check if the number is either present in the role or in the column
I consider done false.
And another thing we can do is we can check for the upgrade.
Now comes the tricky thing.
How do we find out?
In which submarine this number is contained.
Okay.
So let us also learn about.
This calculation that we are going to do.
Okay.
So, for example, let's say I want to find out for this particular cell.
This is zero one, two, three, four, five.
This is four comma one.
And there's a grid for the cell start side.
This particular cell, if.
So if you look carefully, you can easily find out this upgrade.
This is a six on this way.
The starting point of the upgrade and this is X, the A6 would be nothing but it would be a six by three
into three.
So let me show you.
Four by three is one into three.
It is going to be three.
And as way is going to be one by three into three.
That is going to be zero.
So this is actually 310.
Okay.
And you can verify that this formula is going to work for everything.
So how this is going to work, I will just give you an idea.
So you have a grid upsizing and it is divided into three parts.
Okay.
So we have three grids and by three and same holds true for the horizontal and vertical axis.
If I want to number these three words from zero, I can give them number that zero, one and two.
Okay.
So if I do and by three, I get the starting.
I get the grid number.
Okay.
So if this is zero one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
If you just divide them by three, six by three is two seven batteries.
Do it by three, stoop for them.
You get two for them.
You get one for them, you get zero.
Okay.
And.
And from this do you you can see the starting point is at six.
How do you get six?
You multiply it by three.
For this one.
You see the starting point is three.
How do you get this?
You multiply it by three, you multiply this by three.
This gives us the starting points.
Okay, so let us try for this particular cell.
This is five, six, seven.
So this should be the starting point.
So this is seven, comma four.
Let us find the starting point for seven on four.
So what we do seven by four, seven by three and two, three and four were drawn to three.
So seven by three is six.
And four by three is one and three is three.
Okay.
So you can see this point is actually six commentary.
So this formula really works.
Once you know the starting point of this upgrade.
You can hydrate in a square of three by three from that starting point.
Okay, so let us see this logic in the code.
So what I'm going to do?
I'm going to find out.
The square root or I can simply do.
I can assume that it's a three by three upgrade.
So as X is going to be.
I buy.
Three industry.
So let us assume that end is nine in this case.
And that's why it's going to be.
Jay by three into three.
And four index equals to six.
X less than.
Ethics plus three.
X plus plus.
Four and like was s y y less than is y plus three.
Five plus plus.
If my traits of x y contains.
This particular number.
Then we return false.
Otherwise we return true that this number is not present in the local memoranda subgroup.
This is a word helper function and we are done.
Let us bring the solution.
Four and I equals zero.
I less ten.
Nine, eight plus, plus.
For in the equals zero day less than nine day plus plus vote matrix of a J.
One thing I need to change.
This is the recursive call that is actually also local.
Okay.
So this is also local.
And we are able to vote.
So let's build our code and write it on it.
So I want to solve Sudoku.
So you can see this is the output I'm getting.
And let us just verify for a few random grids if we have all the numbers from 1 to 9, one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight and nine.
That seems fine.
Do we also have the numbers?
Which are.
So we should have five and nine, so we should not replace the original numbers.
We have five or nine here and let us look at each at.
So.
You look at this.
It contains all the numbers.
You look at this row and this column or you look at this row, it contains all the numbers from 1 to
9.
And we able to look at this sub grade.
It contains all the numbers in the range 1 to 9.
And this is true for all this upgrades and that means our solution seems correct.
Okay, so we got the correct solution.
I hope you really understood this logic and you are now able to implement this.
So Lucas all.
And this is the backtracking step that you should not miss.
And another mistake that people do is they will they forget to add the written statements.
This is very important.
Otherwise, you will not able to propagate true or false that you are getting from this problem to the
previous call and you will get stuck.
So the either done statements are actually important here.
So that's it for this particular.
Problem.
Thank you.
I hope you learned a lot of new content.